**Performance Check #1:**

Our design met all the specifications of the performance checkpoint. Our robot successfully started when the right light came on, moved forward, went up the ramp, and then touched the kiosk. Unfortunately, the robot didn’t go back down the ramp for the extra credit points.

Despite the successful completion of Checkpoint 1, our robot did not work as we expected to at all. During the completion of the course, the robot was very erratic, was zigzagging up the ramp, was turning to angles that weren’t accounted for, but the robot still somehow completed Checkpoint 1. We expected the robot to work normally, meaning that setting both the left and right motor to equal positive percents would cause the robot to move forward straight. But what happened was that the robot was erratically turning even when we set the motors to equal positive percents, which caused a lot of problems. To overcome this obstacle, we had to do a lot of testing to equalize the movement of the motors.

One strength of our robot design is that the wheels are in the front of the robot, allowing for a lot of torque and front drive that can be used to power through the incline of the ramp. Another strength of our robot is that it is cheap because it doesn’t have 4 wheels; it instead has two skids in the back. This allows us to use the saved money to purchase extra materials and items that could be used to enhance the functionality of our robot.

One way the design of our robot can be improved is by changing up the orientation of the wiring on the robot. The wiring on the robot is currently very complicated and confusing. Labelling the motor port wires would be helpful. Additionally, the Proteus is not very secure to the robot, and implementing something onto the robot that can secure the Proteus on it would be helpful before the next performance test. Additionally, the two wires that connect to the left Motor port should be flipped because our motors were interfaced into the structure of the robot such that they are in different orientations. This caused the left Motor to move backwards when setting it to a positive percent, which didn’t happen on the Crayola bot. This caused havoc during Checkpoint 1 because during our first tests, the robot was turning when it was supposed to be moving forward. Switching the two wires that connect to the left Motor port should now make the code easier to follow along with and just lead to less overall confusion during the rest of the robot project.

Our team faced a combination of hardware problems, and design problems. Our motors were not spinning at any percent less than 100 because there was Loctite in the shafts of our motors after attempting to glue our wheels to the axels of the motors. To fix this hardware issue, the motors had to be submerged in adhesive remover overnight. After doing this, the motors were able to function to a normal extent and spin at low percent powers. One design problem our team faced was that the bumper plate was coming in contact with the ramp while the robot was trying to go up it. The resulting friction led to the robot turning while going up the ramp. To overcome this, we had to remove the bumper plate and complete Checkpoint 1 without the use of a bumper plate (which contained two microswitches to detect wall contact with the bumper plate). After doing so, the robot was able to go up the ramp.

To ensure success in the future, we will implement the solutions discussed above to each of the problems we are currently experiencing with the robot. Additionally, we will try to be more proactive in trying to detect potential issues with the functionality of the robot before the date of the Checkpoint test. Doing so would give us more time to implement solutions to problems and should allow for smoother testing and overall experience during the course of this project.
